Installation Guides Rewrite (#326)
strapi/documentation: docs/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/installation/cli.md

---

<style lang="scss" scoped>
/*
    We override the :::warning and :::danger callouts for specific uses here.
    The CSS is scoped so this won't affect the rest of the docs.

    Eventually this will be turned into custom blocks or VuePress components,
    once I understand better how markdown-it and markdown-it-custom-block work.
  */
  .custom-block.congrats,
  .custom-block.danger {
    border-left-width: .25rem;
  }

  .custom-block.danger {
    margin-top: 2em;
    margin-bottom: 2em;

    .custom-block-title, p, li {
      color: rgb(44, 62, 80);
    }
    a {
      color: #007eff;
    }
  }

  .custom-block.danger {
    background-color: rgba(129,107,250, .05);
    border-color: rgb(129,107,250);

    .custom-block-title {
      color: rgb(129,107,250);
      font-weight: bold;
    }
  }

  .custom-block.details {
      color: rgb(44, 62, 80);
  }
</style>

# Installing from CLI

Strapi CLI (Command Line Interface) installation scripts are the fastest way to get Strapi running locally. The following guide is the installation option most recommended by Strapi.

## Preparing the installation

> The CLI installation guide requires 2 softwares to be already installed on your computer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLI installation guide requires at least two software prerequisites to be already installed on your computer:
```

Reviewer 2: Here I recommend more, "The CLI installation guide has at least two software prerequisite for your environment"

| MariaDB    | 10.1            |

> | MongoDB    | 3.6             |

Reviewer 2: Following the last title, "Strapi currently supports the following databases". Wouldn't it be technically correct to include SQLite in this list? Since it's referenced below as the Database of choice when the `--quickstart` flag is applied

Reviewer: :+1:

Author: Maybe I missed something, Richard, but SQLite already is in the list of supported databases:

![Screenshot 2021-06-21 at 15 53 24](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4233866/122773879-03345780-d2a9-11eb-85e5-32c36a1ee173.png)

What we did on this part was just added the note about dropping MongoDB.

Reviewer 2: I believe I was looking at a clipped view of the table. My bad. Looks good to me.

> ## Creating a Strapi project

Reviewer 3: Is it worth it to add a link somewhere to redirect to this documentation?
https://strapi.io/documentation/developer-docs/latest/developer-resources/cli/CLI.html#strapi-new

Author: Same reply as [here](https://github.com/strapi/documentation/pull/326#discussion_r655394851)

The following installation guide covers the most basic installation option using the CLI. There are however other options that can be used when creating a new Strapi project:

- Using the `--quickstart` flag at the end of the command to directly create the project in quickstart mode.
- Using the `--template` flag at the end of the command to create a project with pre-made Strapi configurations (see [Templates](templates.md)).

Strapi also offers a starters CLI to create a project with a pre-made frontend application (see [our dedicated blog post](https://strapi.io/blog/announcing-the-strapi-starter-cli)).
:::

1. In a terminal, run the following command:

:::: tabs card
::: tab npm
 ```sh
  npx create-strapi-app my-project
  ```
::: 
::: tab yarn
 ```sh
  yarn create strapi-app my-project
 ```
:::

2. Choose an installation type:
   * `Quickstart (recommended)`, which uses the default database (SQLite)
   * `Custom (manual settings)`, which allows to choose your preferred database

3. (Custom installation type only) Among the list of databases, choose a database for your Strapi project.

4. (Custom installation type only) Name your project's database.

> ## Running Strapi

Reviewer 3: Is it worth it to add a link somewhere to redirect to this documentation?
https://strapi.io/documentation/developer-docs/latest/developer-resources/cli/CLI.html#strapi-develop

Reviewer 3: Could also be added in one-click guides maybe?

Author: Honestly I'm not sure because:
* I'm not sure the strapi-new part in the docs is up-to-date
* I have the feeling it would complicate the thing a bit (with the multiple parameters that can be passed)

To start the Strapi application, run the following command in the project folder:

:::: tabs card
::: tab npm
```bash
npm run develop
```
:::

::: tab yarn
```sh
yarn develop
```
:::

> <!-- ### Creating a project with starters

Reviewer 3: What is the plan with Starters? It's commented.

Author: On va lui dire que pour l'instant on fait pas de guide dédié sur les starters puisque c'est une documentation nouvelle qu'on a pas, et pour l'instant le but du projet était surtout de réécrire ce qui existait déjà.

For now, the plan is to not create a dedicated starters guide. This is going to be a new documentation.
The goal of this PR was mostly to rewrite the existing content.

The commented parts are going to be removed, thank you!
